Summary:
Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome (SGS) is characterized by: delayed motor and cognitive milestones and mild-to-moderate intellectual disability; craniosynostosis of the coronal, sagittal, or lambdoid sutures; distinctive craniofacial features; and musculoskeletal findings including olichostenomelia, arachnodactyly, camptodactyly, pectus excavatum or carinatum, scoliosis, joint hypermobility or contractures, pes planus, foot malposition, and C1-C2 spine malformation. Cardiovascular anomalies may include mitral valve prolapse, secundum atrial septal defect, and aortic root dilatation. Minimal subcutaneous fat, abdominal wall defects, and myopia are also characteristic findings.
Description:
To date, 44 individuals have been identified with a pathogenic variant in SKI. The following description of the phenotypic features associated with this condition is based on these reports.
Neurodevelopment. Motor and cognitive milestones are delayed and intellectual disability is usually mild to moderate. To date, three individuals with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome (SGS) and a confirmed SKI pathogenic variant were reported to have normal intelligence.
Craniosynostosis usually involves the coronal, sagittal, or lambdoid sutures. The sutures are fused at birth and craniosynostosis can usually be suspected from the abnormal skull shape. A single suture or multiple sutures may be involved. Information on individuals with SGS who underwent surgery for craniosynostosis in unavailable.
Characteristic craniofacial features include hypertelorism, downslanting palpebral fissures, ocular proptosis, high narrow palate, micrognathia, and low-set posteriorly rotated ears. Cleft palate was reported in three of 17 individuals with SGS.
Musculoskeletal. Arachnodactyly, camptodactyly, pectus deformities, and clubfeet are common features and are present at birth. Joint contractures are often present at birth or in the neonatal period, with the ankle joint most frequently affected.
Cardiovascular. Aortic root dilatation was present in three of 18 affected individuals reported by Carmignac et al one had arterial tortuosity and two had splenic artery aneurysm – one with spontaneous rupture.
Ocular. Myopia was reported in ten of 19 individuals.
Minimal subcutaneous fat and/or marfanoid habitus was reported in nine of 20 individuals.
Abdominal wall defects were reported in 14 of 23 individuals.
Other
Dural ectasia (5/8 individuals);Chiari 1 malformation (2/3 individuals);Cryptorchidism (1/1 male).
